The station of the cross presents sermons for everyday living, powerful sermons from faithful and inspirational priests.
Our first sermon for today is entitled, This Lend, Go the Extra Mile.
Extra step!
extra step to go the extra step the extra mile to do the little bit extra Lanya Brothers sisters this is 1970s his name is Alan Alan lives in st. Thomas the Virgin Isles and He has a younger sister His mother is well.
She sings a little bit.
She dances a little bit.
This is true.
His dad is a musician Well, not exactly he would like to be a musician, but he makes his money
He has a little grill, a little greasy spoon.
I like a coffee shop.
That's how they make their money.
But I got to tell you, Allen's life is tumultuous.
It starts when he's two years old.
Here he is two years old, his parents are divorced.
He's now got to go from St. Thomas to New Jersey.
He lives with his grandparents.
Then about the age of 12, just when he thinks the world is settling down, he gets moved to South Florida.
And if that's not bad enough in the move,
Man, bad news comes yet again.
This time he finds out that his grandfather's passed away and his dad is actually murdered in the house when they had a break in.
Man, his life is spinning out of control.
His grandmother will tell you he gets involved in high school and drama.
And he says he likes the drama class because, well, he can hide.
He can be different people.
The scenario always turns out great.
He can pick the ending.
He was so good in drama, Alan was, you know, that Juilliard
Julliard gave him a scholarship.
The only problem is he didn't go to class, so they lost the scholarship.
Next thing you know, man, he's struggling a little bit, gets a play on Broadway, then another play, then another play, and then, well, he gets a break in the action.
He gets a little couple's TV series.
Not much, but Allen gets them and does pretty well.
On TV, one of the series was called Kennedy, another one was called Back to You, and then he got another one called Hank.
And as a result of it, he kind of opened up the world.
And he says, man, finally the world is starting to turn for the good.
And then yet again, problems abound.
This time his sister, whom he was, that was his heart.
She has actually murdered in a robber.
And as a result, man, his life is spinning.
And if that wasn't bad enough within months, he gets a phone call from his mom, his half brother and sister, when she remarried.
Well, they go scuba diving, shark attack kills them both.
Brothers and sisters in Christ,
He goes into drugs, into alcohol.
He goes into a little bit of everything.
As a result of it, man, next thing you know, man, he doesn't know which way to turn.
He doesn't interview not long ago.
And they asked him, how did you become such a successful talent and actor after all that's happened to you?
And he says, man, it was that extra step that I took.
He said, I actually went to the prison and confronted the man that murdered my sister.
And I forgave him.
That extra step turned my life around.
And you know, Brothers and Sisters in Christ, he's been in movies.
He's been in movies like The X-Men, The Expendables 3.
He was in the movie called Down Periscope.
It's just pretty funny if you've ever seen it.
And then all of a sudden, if that wasn't good enough, he all of a sudden started getting voiceovers.
Like he was in The Toy Story.
He played Stinky Pete.
I'm just repeating these Brothers and Sisters.
I don't watch all these shows.
He was in The Simpsons, and then, of course, he was sideshow Bob.
But you know when he really started to make his hay, he got a contract for sixth episode that turned into almost a lifetime about this little bar in Boston.
And then it started to grow legs.
And the next thing you know, they kept him in for eight episodes, then 10.
And the next thing they decided to keep him.
No brothers and sisters in Christ.
He wasn't Norm.
He wasn't the bartender.
He wasn't even the postman.
It's when he left that show and started his own show that it even grew more legs and he lasted longer than cheers.
He used to sing the closing song in his own show.
But he had something to do with tall salad and scrambled eggs.
You know him as Dr. Frazier Crane, brothers and sisters in Christ.
You know him as Kelsey Grammer.
My brother says, Christ, all because he took that extra step.
That's exactly that gospel.
You are a leper.
You live in a community outside.
There is no memo.
That says, filming 11, Messiah coming, all miracles cured, free.
There's no poster, there's nobody yelling out, there's nobody proclaiming it.
That leper is waiting, and he's waiting, knowing full well that he's risked his life to be out in public, because he's not yelling unclean, and he's waiting for the Messiah to come.
And you know what's amazing?
Everybody who knows Christ to be the Messiah, who recognizes him to be true.
This is early in his life, early in his proclamation that he's the Messiah.
Everybody that recognizes Christ kneels, or lays prostrate, or bows.
Very few do it.
Here's a guy that's never even met him that runs up and kneels down.
That's why you and I kneel during the consecration.
That's why you and I kneel to receive him.
Why, brother and sister in Christ?
Because we know he's physically present.
My brothers and sisters in Christ, now you're a first century and make sure you understand this.
When he approaches the good Lord, did you hear the good Lord's words?
I do.
Will it?
I do will it.
He didn't say I will do it.
Will it?
Do it.
He's saying I do all things by my will.
I don't have to act on it at all.
He's not saying I will do it.
And the only reason he touches it is so that that leper knows when the miracle takes place.
This is why in the sacraments you have an outward sign of something that takes place inwardly.
You wanna know your sins are forgiven.
You heard the priests say your sins are forgiven go in peace.
You know how original sin was removed, the water hit your head.
That's how you know.
You got anointed or anointed of the sick when the oil is on your hands.
Now if you're a first century Jew, go back in the time of Matthew and Mark, Luke and John.
Mark is not an apostle.
He is a follower of Peter and Paul.
And as a result of it, he's talking to Gentiles.
He's talking to you and I.
And he's telling them.
He's all about the facts.
He knows you never met Christ.
He knows you probably never even met half the apostles.
He's telling you about miracles because we are seeing is believing.
We are Thomas's from the very get go and he's preaching it and he's talking about it.
You know what's amazing?
He uses the word immediately about 40 to 50 times in scripture.
He did it today.
He said as soon as he touched him immediately, the leprosy left.
Now, if you're a first century Jew, the only person that you know that's ever cured leprosy, they will immediately go all the way back to the second book of Kings.
Naaman is the head of the army.
And the only reason the king won't get rid of him is Naaman is so good at defending the country and taking hostages and doing what he needs to do to proclaim the peace.
The only reason the king can't get rid of him is that good.
And if he gets rid of him, somebody else will take him.
The problem?
Naaman's a leper.
And here's the deal.
He says, look, send him to the prophet Elijah.
Elijah tells him, God would cure you
God will cure you if you go to the Jordan and you bathe seven times.
Naaman is so upset that he's got to go into that polluted river.
He goes to every other river trying to avoid it.
And finally he goes in and says, enough is enough.
I just might as well walk in.
And because he does it, he's cured.
So they know that Naaman was cured only because God told the prophet what to do.
And now all of a sudden you got this scenario where he comes up and he cures him.
Now you got to decide.
Is he God or not?
Maybe he's a prophet.
That's why he knelt because he now knows he is God.
And make sure you understand.
Granted, you got cured of leprosy.
You can't even grow your own food.
You can't leave the commune.
It's a death sentence.
Now, all of a sudden, you're cured.
You're going to be sent to the priest.
You know why you go to the priest?
So he can give you the okidoki stamp saying it's OK for you to go back in the public.
If you don't have that,
You might as well go back to the commune.
Brothers and sisters in Christ, they can't cure it.
All they can do is delineate.
Is it or is it not?
So here we are, brothers and sisters in Christ, throughout Scripture.
You only get cleaned four ways in Scripture.
You are cleaned by water.
You are cleaned by time.
You are cleaned by action or by blood.
Time.
They're in the desert for 40 years so that everybody who worship the golden calf will pass before they enter the promised land.
Time cures it.
Brother and sister in Christ, it rained on Noah for 40 days.
The good Lord is in the desert for 40 days.
Time cleansed it.
Water, they crossed over the Red Sea.
It freed the Israelites.
It cleansed them.
Baptism in the Jordan by our Savior to show you and I what needs to be done.
Name it.
Now, brother and sister in Christ, some people are cured by action.
That would be Bartimaeus.
Son of David, have mercy on me.
Son of David!
Have mercy on me.
Do you know he's blind?
He gets up and the first thing he throws to the ground is one thing he owns is tuning.
Brothers and sisters, what if he doesn't get cured when he walks to the voice and he gets over there and he's not cured?
He's lost the only thing he owns.
That is faith.
He knew he'd be cured.
You know the good Lord never touched him.
He just willed it.
My brothers and sisters in Christ and then there's blood.
The martyrs, dismiss the good thief.
The 12 apostles, notwithstanding John, who we believe could have probably been boiled in oil, and when that didn't kill him, they put him on the island of Patmos.
Well, here we sit.
Are you willing to take the extra step to do what is necessary?
Look, I don't want to hear the argument.
It's not my job description.
Father, you don't understand.
They work me like a dog.
They pay me next to nothing.
If they pay me more, look, let me tell you something.
If your job and your life is tied to the decimal point, then you and I got bigger problems than we think.
Never tie your name to your decimal point.
That is not your worth and it's not indicative of your worth.
And don't tie it to your job description.
You take the extra step because the good Lord gave you the gift to take the extra step so that people will know that you're a good Catholic.
If you are a good Catholic, you'll be a good husband and a good wife.
You'll be a good child and you'll be a good child of our Savior.
All gifts come from God.
And if you and I don't take the extra step, how will people know?
My brother says in Christ,
Will you answer the phone when that friend that calls wears you out with the same issue over and over and over again?
Will you just stop watching the show friends for a second?
I say that because my mother's not here and I can't get away with that.
My brother and sister in Christ, will you stop what you're doing and go see that family member you haven't visited in forever?
Will you go to the nursing home for those that have no family?
Will you bring that gift by that you've been promising?
Will you take the extra step to run errands for somebody else to take something off their plate?
Brothers and sisters in Christ, what is gonna be our argument when we stand before the good Lord?
Lord, I did everything that I was supposed to, but nothing more.
Brothers and sisters in Christ, you only, I mean, object mediocrity is our goal.
Brothers and sisters in Christ, then what are you gonna offer to offset your sin?
The only thing you can offer to offset your sins is the extra things you and I do.
So if we only do the middle,
then how do we expect to repay all of our sin?
Brothers and sisters, don't you see?
It's the extra step that makes the day.
It makes you who you are.
It makes you grow in grace.
It impacts other people.
Next thing you know, brothers and sisters in Christ, when you walk away, they will turn and say, now that, that was a disciple of Jesus Christ.
Will you tell the people when they start gossiping, I need to step away from this, I'll just pray for them?
Will you give up something in Lent that makes Lent worthwhile?
Brothers and sisters, I know we're cranky for the first two weeks.
I get that.
But let me tell you, we're better Catholics and we're better people because we took that extra step.
My brothers and sisters in Christ, I leave you with this.
I don't know who said it, but I think it's very profound.
He said the words, well, here goes nothing.
The words, here goes nothing will be the extra step to everything.
Take the extra step.
Amen.
In the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, amen.
We hope you enjoyed this sermon entitled, This Lent, Go the Extra Mile.
Our next sermon for today is entitled, Saying Goodbye to the World.
Behold, we go up to Jerusalem in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost.
Amen.
Do your sisters, do your faithful.
Lent was fixed by the Holy Council of Nicaea as 40 days in preparation for the Feast of Easter.
That's how old this season is.
40 days fixed by the Holy Council of Nicaea.
And the three days immediately preceding Ash Wednesday is known as Shrove Tide.
which comes from the old English word shrive, or shriven, to confess, to get ready, to make a good Lent, to go, the Catholics have the tradition to go to confession before Lent started.
The pop of the name we hear of is called the carnival.
The carnival comes from two words, carnivalere, which means farewell to meet.
Farewell to meet from the Latin, carnivalere.
Now how do we spend
the three days according to the mind of the church.
And how are we to celebrate the Shrove Tide?
Well, this Sunday's Mass teaches us how we should keep Shrove Tide and how we should prepare for the final sprint during Easter, during Lent to Easter.
First of all, we read here in the Epistle, St. Paul's talking to the Corinthians.
He's talking about the virtue, the theological virtue of charity, divine love,
Not just any kind of love, a Christian charity, Christian love that's in our souls between us and God and that sanctifies our souls, which makes it in other words pleasing to God.
And the charity exists between us all together.
It's one of the same.
And he says here, he makes a distinction between the extraordinary gifts that the church receives and the ordinary gift.
The extraordinary gifts, he lists them.
He says, speaking in the tongues of men and angels, if I have no charity, it's nothing.
And if I should have prophecy, so I can prophesy, you hear this today, there's a lot of that going on, like the Corinthians had those gifts.
There's nothing wrong with them, it's good, he's saying, but if I have that alone, I have nothing, I am nothing.
So even if I'm edifying the church,
It's not for my sanctification.
That's what he's explaining here.
So the ordinary gifts is what he wants us to focus on, because have charity.
And also you may pray for those extraordinary gifts for the carried make gifts.
If God wishes it, if God wills it, and it's for my salvation, God's will be done.
But if it's not, take it away.
So that's always subject to God's will, he's saying here.
And if I should distribute all my goods to feed the poor, now who
Disagrees that such a thing is so merit worthy and so praise worthy among men and God.
And he says, if you do that even, even if you die delivering your body to be burned and have not charity in your heart and your soul, you are nothing.
Now he gives us what Christian charity is all about.
What does it mean to live in God and God to live in you?
to live in a state of grace.
What's it mean?
Is it just an absence of sin?
He says charity is patient.
That's the thermometer we know, by which we know whether we have God in us.
God is charity.
So if you want to know how much you love God, instead of just being words in your mouth or in your thoughts or some sentiment or feeling, charity is patient.
So if you can see there, are you patient or not?
If you are, you have charity.
Charity is kind.
It does not envy anybody.
And charity deals not perversely.
It's not wicked.
If you have charity, you don't end up talking wickedly or about anybody, and you're not puffed up about what you know or who you are or what you have because all is a gift from God.
You're not provoked to anger.
Charity if you have charity if you have God you're instead of grace you're not provoked to anger And you do not think any evil but you rejoice not in lies Not in half-truths you rejoice in the truth.
So if you have true charity You rejoice in the truth and in fact the other side is true also your saddened that lies at errors and
And you know, these things, that means, you know, you still have charity there that rejoices in the truth.
What God has revealed, whatever is true that comes from God, I rejoice in that.
It beareth all things, he says.
So we bear all things like Christ.
We believe all things.
And we hope in all hope all things and endure all things.
So say you were able to prophesy.
and speak in the tongues of angels, and give all your goods to the poor, and have yourself burn, sacrifice yourself.
That is nothing.
All those good works is nothing if you do not have grace, sanctifying grace, and charity, which are the ordinary means of sanctification.
The ordinary means which come through the sacraments, that come through prayer and virtues, practice of the virtues.
And charity will never
fall away.
In other words, even though you have faith, which you were able to move mountains because it's important to have great faith, not just to know the whole Sumer Theologica.
Even if you memorize the whole Bible, it doesn't mean you have faith.
The devils can quote you any part of the Scripture, any time you want.
They can also know, they know all the knowledge that there is in the world and yet they have no faith.
They have no hope and they have no charity.
So even if you have great faith, it's important to develop that great faith, to pray for that.
But that faith that touches God, I believe everything you've said, my Father, because you have told me and you can neither deceive nor be deceived.
I'm your son.
I'm your child.
I'm your daughter.
And he hopes it's unshakable.
Nothing you throw at it can shake it.
But when we arrive to our final union with Christ in heaven,
There'll be only charity.
We don't need faith anymore because we now see clearly who we've always wanted.
And we've arrived with the promises we were hoping for.
Now we've attained the possession of God.
But love always remains.
And love that's pure, that's Christian, alright, that's union with God.
And that is what God wills for us.
And that is how we should spend our land.
And spend these three days thinking
This is what charity means.
This is what I need to work at.
And then it goes on.
The church calls us, you are being called not only to live in charity for love of God, but to imitate the charity of Jesus Christ.
And He says, let us go up to Jerusalem to His apostles.
He's talking to all of you.
And what is He calling them to do?
To come with Him in order that all that was written by the prophets concerning the Son of Man and the Son of Adam, all of us, the children of man.
in order to follow Him to Calvary, in order to do what?
What are you being called to do?
To be delivered to the Gentiles.
Delivered to the Gentiles.
Sheep, you are sent like sheep among wolves.
You will not break charity, but they will, in attacking you, they'll also be converted one day.
The seed, the blood of Christians is a seed, the blood of Christians spilled as martyrdom.
will produce and convert more souls.
You're called then to also be mocked.
He says that you shall be mocked and scourged.
How often does a tongue yield its sharpness and scourge us?
It scourges you.
And yet you don't see physical blueness or any blood and yet the soul bleeds.
Words hurt so much.
And that's
Our Lord is calling you to be prepared for love of Him to be scourged and to be spit upon.
That's the height of charity, to be able to endure all things, bear all things.
What is charity after all?
It's saying bear all things, be patient, be kind.
It does not deal perversely.
It means like, while I'm my tears and my suffering, I'm united with Christ, but there's still nothing if I'm not in charity.
I have to be united to Him because it's His suffering that counts and I'm only united to Him.
And it's Jesus suffering in me because we are united to His body.
It's just not you.
It's not you alone, but you and Him united together.
You are being called to go with Him.
And then if you don't understand like the apostles, it says here, they did not understand.
They did not understand.
Let us go up to Jerusalem to go.
What?
He's been talking for three years to them, getting them ready for this point, to go off to Calvary, and they're like, what are you talking about?
Their eyes were closed.
So then, providentially, God has set it all up.
A blind man comes along and says, who's that coming around?
It's Jesus.
Really?
Then he cries out to him, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me to do what?
To heal his blindness, physical blindness, in order to buy
healing his physical blindness, for those who do not understand that they may see by the faith, through the eyes of their soul, what we've been called to, what kind of charity we've been called to, and where we have to go to Jerusalem with him.
He opened the eyes of that blind man in order to open the eyes of the hearts of those apostles, and for you to open your eyes, that this is something good,
God allows and is for our sanctification.
As long as we keep in growing in that love of Jesus and crying out for this to be cured.
And then we come back to the beginning.
We're glorifying God.
People are glorifying God because his eyes are open.
But the apostle's eyes are open too.
Aha.
Now I know where Jesus is going.
And yes, I embrace that.
You will embrace it.
It's okay.
Is it okay to be mocked?
to be discouraged.
Well, Jesus is not, we're not greater than Jesus.
And yet he, he endured all that.
He shows us, he fulfilled what the epistle talks about charity.
He is the substance of the Father and the Holy Ghost.
He is charity itself.
And we see that fulfilled in Christ.
And if Christ lives in you, you will also see this come alive in you too.
And was Jesus happy?
Was he joyful in going?
Yes, because he was fulfilling his purpose.
We are called to lay down our life for each other and to let Jesus live in us.
And as much as he lives in us, we'll die to ourselves.
And then the church will be really lifted up.
Then we'll be able to glorify God and not live anymore to ourselves.
So that's the charity we're called to.
a divine charity, not this sensual love, not this what people call today love, but it's actually hatred of your soul, the true life that comes from God.
To help you focus on the passion, Sennilbert the Great learned in a revelation
that by simply thinking of the passion of Jesus Christ, a Christian gains more merit than if he had fasted on bread and water every Friday for a year and had recited the whole book of Psalms every day.
Just to understand, 150 Psalms, you did it every day.
Or if you fasted on bread and water every Friday for a year, it's nothing compared to simply thinking on the passion.
because there you're compassionating our Lord's suffering.
He did all this for us.
And then we grow in His love and He inflames us.
One way of doing this, I would suggest, is to take the seven last words of Jesus on the cross and divide them up for every day of the week.
Monday, you could choose, for example, Father forgive them.
They do not know what they are doing.
On Tuesday,
Take the next word.
I thirst and simply think about that, reflect on it.
Wednesday, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me?
Unite your sufferings there when you feel forsaken.
Thursday, woman, behold your son.
Son, behold your mother.
Unite yourself to the mother of sorrows at the foot of the cross on that day.
Friday, amen, I say to you, today you will be with me in paradise.
Have that unshakable hope that if that thief
full of crime in that moment of one act of perfect contrition, one act of love from Christ could take him to paradise immediately.
How much hope should we have for ourselves?
And then on Saturday into your hands, I commend my spirit, an act of self surrender that we all have to make at the moment of death.
It's a which is an act of perfect confidence.
And then finally on Sunday, it is finished.
I'm united with the Lamb, forever in heaven.
My dear faithful, these three days spent stealing away or wasting time with our Lord.
How often we waste time?
We can waste our time with Jesus in the blessed sacrament.
Steal snatchers of time throughout your day.
You can't just direct your intention to wherever you see a church.
You know where a church direct your intention to Jesus in the blessed sacrament and make spend time of loving Him
And just looking at Him there, He's always watching you and wants you to be united to Him.
In conclusion, my dear faithful, the last wave goodbye to the world.
Karnivala ere.
Bye to meet.
Do our last bit of warm-up before the 40 days spent to Easter.
Repair yourself to enter the season of land by prayer.
mental prayer, especially on the passion of Jesus, and the traditional custom of being shriven by a good confession.
Let us visit Christ in His sacrament of love to adore Him, either physically to be present or spiritually, and make what little reparation is in your power for the outrangers heaped upon Him during these few days of disorder.
And in this 40-day of Lent, devote one thought every day to meditating on the sacred passion of His Son.
And after one's thought spent on the sacred passion, let us assign each day of the week to a thought on the seven sorrows and tears of our Lady for Her Son.
And let us consecrate all our efforts to the Immaculate Heart of Mary that she may take it all, purify it, and make us worthy of eternal life as promised by our Lord Jesus Christ.
Behold, you go up to Jerusalem.
In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost.
Amen.
We hope you enjoyed this sermon entitled, Saying Goodbye to the World.
Our next sermon for today is entitled, Self-Knowledge for a Good Lent.
The great spiritual warfare, my dear children, awaits us.
The great combat when we take up the arms of prayer, fasting, and almsgiving to do battle against the world, the flesh, and the devil.
Take the time now, in the few days that remain, to settle
on what sort of mortifications you shall undergo.
Clear them with your confessor, and then think no more on them in all humility, submit, and simply stick to them.
As in the past, I always tell you there are certain things where you may feel free to be severe with yourself.
Television, blogs, social media, radio in your car, secular films and music, you may feel free to cut these out of your life.
all throughout these sacred 40 days.
As far as the physical penance, especially fasting, this is the great sword of the spiritual combat when we must always remind ourselves a sword is no use to us if it is too heavy for us to lift.
That is why in all humility we should always ask our confessor if a particular fast is suited to us.
As far as works of charity you know and joined upon you all starting
On the first Sunday of Lent, although you may feel free to start earlier, take the time to greet someone.
Take the time to speak to someone whom you are not in the habit of speaking to, perhaps someone you've never even met, and whom you may greet for the first time.
That is why we do not do away with coffee and donuts.
During Lent, we encourage you to go downstairs.
We encourage you to have time to speak to each other.
We should all go even further
and imitating so many of our fathers in the face, faith asks forgiveness of someone with whom we are at odds.
It was no better time than Lent to take the time to ask someone's forgiveness.
In times past, all warfare was forbidden during these days.
In our cruel modern era, we know well enough that this is no longer the case.
But as far as the wars that go on between us,
There is nothing that stops us from making such a truce.
And so let us all have the humility to approach those with whom we are at odds and ask forgiveness for any faults we may have committed on our side.
Finally, we should never forget that lesson which comes to us from our Lord right in the midst of Len.
The reminder that that which goes into a man is not principally that which defiles him, but that
which comes out.
For the things which proceed from the mouth come forth from the heart, he says.
And those things defile a man.
For from the heart come forth evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false testimonies, blasphemies.
The Apostle Saint James tells us if any man offends not in word, he is a perfect man.
He is able to lead about the whole body with a bridle.
For if we put bits into the mouths of horses that they may obey us, we guide their whole bodies.
We hold also ships, whereas they are great, yet they are driven by strong winds, yet they are turned about with a small rudder, wherever the will of the pilot directs.
Even so, the tongue is indeed a little member and boasts of great things.
Behold how great a forest is set ablaze by a small fire.
And the tongue is a fire.
The tongue is an unrighteous world among our members defiling the whole body, setting aflame the wheel of existence itself set on fire by hell.
For every kind of beast and bird of creeping thing and fish can be tamed and has been tamed by man.
But no man can tame the tongue.
a restless evil full of deadly poison, whether we bless the Lord and Father, and whether we curse men who are made in the likeness of God.
From the same mouth come forth blessing and cursing.
My brethren, this ought not to be so.
Our Patron Saint Francis De Sales cautions us when you speak of your neighbor, look upon your tongue,
as a sharp razor in the surgeon's hand, about to cut nerves and tendons.
It should be used so carefully as to ensure that no particle more or less than the truth he said.
And finally, when you are called upon to blame sin, always strive as far as possible to spare the sinner.
How often, as he reminds us in another passage, do we begin
to speak about someone else saying so and so is a fine person.
But in such a case, we know that our blade has already slipped.
Hate the sin and love the sinner.
This is true enough.
How often have we heard people say this?
It serves as a sort of summary of the Christian moral code.
How often have we repeated it to ourselves with smug satisfaction?
And yet how often is this and us nothing but pure hypocrisy?
For in sins of the tongue especially, we hate the sinner and love the sin.
Do we not all have the liveliest awareness of when we have been sinned against in word?
The slightest cross word, insensitive rebar, tone at our expense, and we already
Either to draw our sword in defense of our rights, or hide under our bed and pout for the next week.
Let us consider then briefly the types of sins of the tongue.
There is lying, which in itself is a venial sin, but mortal when a sin directly against justice.
But besides such lies,
told to hurt other people.
There is also boasting, duplicity, and sincerity.
There is the revealing of secrets that have been confided to us, but which we have discovered.
There is contempling, unjustly dishonoring, someone in his presence.
It is often combined with impiety and disrespect, talking back.
priests, religious, to parents.
Then there is defamation, doing the same thing behind someone's back.
Detraction, unjustly revealing, another's genuine but hidden fault.
Gossip.
Then there is calumny or slander, untruthfully declaring a fault of which someone is in fact not guilty.
This need not be some carefully crafted lie.
Most often it flows directly from what we have already decided in our heart.
It's true.
And there is rash judgment.
The firmest sense of the mind, whether put into words or not, to the existence of sin in another person without sufficient reason.
The author of the spiritual combat tells us
And by degrees we assume for ourselves what we detract from others, foolishly imagining ourselves exempt from the sins for which we so readily condemn our neighbors.
All these sins of the tongue, which I have just named, are by nature mortal.
They are venial only by slight matter or lack of deliberation.
Did not our Lord already tell us this?
You have heard that it was said to them of old, Thou shalt not kill.
And whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of judgment.
But I say to you, whosoever is angry with his brother shall be in danger of the judgment.
And whosoever shall shade to his brother, Raqqa shall be in danger of the counsel.
And whosoever shall say thou fool shall be in danger of hellfire.
How often have you considered that your particular judgment is going to last several hours based on everything you've said throughout your life?
Our judge has already told us you should be called to give an account for every idle word you have uttered.
What hope have we been?
The virtue we hear about on this Sunday before
the virtue of charity.
Charity is not just giving what is due or finding the happy medium.
Charity is when we give without counting dues, without measure.
As great as the virtue of justice is, and was understood even to be so by the pagans, we shall be judged by a virtue which was unknown to them, for it was revealed to us by God himself.
We shall be judged on our charity.
Without this virtue, we shall have nothing to recommend us on judgment day.
But with it, we have everything.
Yes, our Lord has told us we should be called to give an account for every idle word.
But he has also told us that charity covers a multitude of sins.
That if we are charitable to others, if we are forgiving and meet out
mercy rather than judgment, we may well hope to receive the same on the day of our reckoning.
No one preached more fiery, lented sermons than the great and holy Dr. John Chris Austin.
And yet he told us flock, you know how much I love and esteem fasting.
Our Lord gave us the greatest example of it.
Yet when Christ spoke to us, he did not say,
Learn of me how well I fasted.
He said, learn of me, for I am meek and humble of heart.
O knowledge of self, the source of all meekness, O precious wisdom that outshines all earthly treasures.
We can find no greater remedy for our sinful inclinations than an awareness of our own wretchedness.
Throughout this lend, and especially
Before we make our confession, let us remember to repeat those words of the blind men we hear today.
Jesus, son of David, have mercy on Lord Grant that I may see.
And let us be confident that he will not fail to say to us in turn, receive thy sight.
Thy faith have made thee whole.
Amen.
We hope you enjoyed this sermon entitled Self-Knowledge for a Good Lent.
Our final sermon for today is entitled The Key to Spiritual Progress.
Agatha Thin said, Does Thou Promise Me Beasts?
When they hear Christ's name, they will grow tame.
The name of the Father, the Son, the Holy Ghost.
This is the fourth anaphron of today's matins of this great feast of St. Agatha.
We spoke about the light the other day, how God shines into our souls, purifying them.
We failed to speak on that occasion about the darkness that the soul has to go through in order to reach the light.
and not just caused by sin, but a process of purification, which is willed by God, put in today's tract, weeping, sowing, and tears, reaping, and rejoicing.
Perkruchim ad luchim, through the cross, to the light.
And so therefore this is a reality in the spiritual life,
Of course, we're not Carmelites, so we will not be here explaining all the Carmelite spirituality.
But they have picked up on very Catholic truths that are applicable to all souls.
When one wants to enter into the illuminative stage of the spiritual life, one is forced to go through the dark night of the senses.
And in order for that to occur, there needs to be a tremendous rejection of all cinch, sense pleasures that come from the things of the world.
And in order to enter into the divine union, the aluminum, the unit of stage, one has to go through the dark night of the soul, the spirit, which is even
more than the dark night of the senses.
To get an idea of the dark night of the senses, it's like a postulant sitting there and all of a sudden dawns on her, oh, I will never enjoy Aunt Sally's homemade apple pie ever again.
And so the soul goes into a tremendous crisis, right?
And it's like, do I stay?
Do I leave?
And the whole world caves in.
And that's a very good thing.
because one is being purified from all those things that gives me selfish delight, right?
So everything and it's almost cruel because it's like just the spirit just plows right through you.
And so this is a very good thing.
Even though since Vatican II, this is now considered no longer a good thing.
We got to also enjoy lots of senses and
you know, put the suit pants on, go out to the bus to become nun buses and all these crazy things.
And so therefore, since I'm not a Carmelite, I will not be going into those ideas, but I'd just like to explain something that's very important for us, especially for those sisters who are in the beginning of their journey.
Some very important principles.
The question is,
As we see with Agatha there, she says, does Thou promise me beasts?
That beast, of course, we know it's lions that will chew her to pieces.
But we can also see it as a symbol of these sins pleasures, right?
The beasts, things that kind of tie to the world.
Does Thou promise me beasts?
Says Agatha.
When they hear Christ's name, they will grow tame.
They will be calmed.
So the question is how to be a religious and also to be a weak human being at the same time and thus come to fulfillment.
The great secret of the spiritual life is, in a special religious life, is purity of intention.
That is so extremely important.
It's one of the most important virtues of the religious life.
I know there's a lot more virtues, but in order to exercise a period of intention, there needs to be a lot of faith.
There's a whole lot of things that are into making, lots of ingredients that go into making this act of period of intention.
And that's what's something that can help us here when we're faced with this dichotomy almost, this
I'm a religious, but I'm also a human being, and I have a human life to live as well.
So we have very high ideals.
The heroic swarms all around us as religious.
We have to be on top of our game.
Every tune of the chant has to be so.
And we have to aspire toward that.
We can't do less.
Mortification, galore.
all over the place.
Custody of the eyes.
And when you already have 95% of the custody eyes, the other 5% will be slapped right on you in a very brutal way.
Custody of the senses, discipline, the extra mile in all virtues.
And right there we just faint because it's just overwhelming, right?
And we also have our human nature.
We have our human nature.
Our human nature anchors us and sends pleasures and that's just the reality.
In other words, we enjoy a nice meal.
We enjoy a good night's rest.
We enjoy even the fun of a hearty laugh and recreation and all these things and they're imposed upon us, all these things.
Don't go and ask your superior
Could I go live in a dog house this night?
I wanna have a little bit of abnegation.
And your superior say no.
Go in that shelter and get a good night's rest.
That's what she should say, right?
Hope I'm not making a mistake.
Hopefully nobody's out in the dog house.
But so we're forced to face all these sense pleasures.
So there's like two trains that are clashing.
That are smashing.
one another, right?
And so that's kind of like what happens.
So what's the solution to this?
The solution is to experience them in God as if the soul were indifferent to all sense pleasures.
The soul has to step in and that's why we need a formation, especially in the beginning years of religious life.
We need to make those acts of faith and have that pure prayer so that
God can be so emphasized into our spirits that we go to everything, and even without formulating a phrase, automatically purifying all of our endeavors, all of our activities, the most mundane to the most sublime.
From eating a bite of cereal at breakfast, or to receive the bread of angels at a holy sacrifice to the mass.
All of these things for the love of God.
The soul needs to have this holy indifference.
And when it goes and embraces all of these things, even since pleasures, then the soul knows how to hold back and to give that to God.
Say, Lord, I will have this little bit of volleyball here that we're playing here on a Sunday afternoon for thy honor and glory.
And don't say that you don't play volleyball because I've seen sometimes there might be a volleyball going on.
But the soul knows how to remit everything to God.
Everything to God.
Even when one is having a good time or a pleasure.
So it's like a spiritual aspiration that keeps us united to God unceasingly.
It keeps our minds and wills, that is to say, our souls firmly fixed on God and thoroughly detached from all sins pleasures, even though I might be, like I said, bombarded by them or imposed upon me, either by duty dictates my state of life or by the mandates of my superiors.
But the soul is free.
This is what we need to achieve.
Indifferent.
Saint Thérèse de Leciux, who called this, rejoicing in all things.
She says, rejoicing in all things, whether it be favorable, unfavorable, whether there are lower faculties involved or the higher faculties involved, everything that happens in my life is all rejoicing in the heart of God, rejoicing in Christ.
St. Paul puts it in these two phrases in his scriptures, in his epistles.
He says, brethren, in Philippians, rejoice always in the Lord.
I say it again, rejoice.
Always.
He didn't say just say 82.5% of the time, but he said always.
Rejoice in the Lord.
And then even goes further by saying, whether eating or drinking, do all to the glory of God.
Let us continue this holy sacrifice of the mess, giving our hearts over to our divine spouse once more saying, Lord Jesus, everything is for thee and nothing for me.
In the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost.
Amen.
This has been Sermons for Everyday Living from the Station of the Cross Catholic Media Network.
Please pray three Hail Marys for the priest who preached in today's show.
To share this episode or to hear it again, find us on your favorite podcasting app under Sermons for Everyday Living.
Have a blessed day.